Mindfulness:

Use as a gauge for situational awareness. 

Mindfulness is like your compass, but instead of it being static and bound to a static environment, it is ever evolving to the environment around it: mindfulness acts as your gyroscope which is a compass or navigational system that is capable of rotating and autocorrecting based on the objects position in space and time (tilting cup holders on a plane). 

Addiction to information caused a complete breakdown of staying mindful and focused on getting results and finishing your work. 

Staying mindful requires deep habit and mental changes as well as self discipline. 

Need to figure out my MOTIVATION for specific PROBLEMS I am trying to solve. Very easy to get lost down a rabbit hole and create an unhealthy environment consumed by information overload. Stay focused on direct production of results l, if something is not helpful to your initial desired outcome STOP.

A huge issue is with analysis paralysis and decision fatigue coupled with a lack of self confidence and inner creativity. 

To elaborate, when faced with a problem requiring a creative solution or decision, my first instinct is to immediately outsource to outside help online. This occurs on both complex, abstract problems which require innovative solutions as well as extremely simple and insignificant decisions (I.e what should I name this folder, what the absolutely indisputable best way to organize my task list, etc). 

The steps are as follows in the scenario to avoid:
-  faced with a problem small or big
- Brain triggers an amazing new opportunity to learn some new and life changing... online
- Google, Reddit etc initially for a solution
- See another interesting way to do it and then another and then something cool about a new app with a word that triggers another spark and i resonate with (usually in a way that has nothing to do with initial reason for researching)
- have overloaded browser full of tabs, wasted money on useless new products, cloudy brain that has forgotten what the initial purpose actually was and no sense of clarity because the desired outcome has now become completely blurred by overload
- hours and hours have passed, my brain is fatigued, I've lost touch with my days purpose, I forget to eat, sleep, exercise and keep in touch with those I love and respect.

Counterintuitive and often simple solutions frequently solve the grandest farthest reaching problems. Thinking and forcing deep mental endeavors is more valuable, healthy, and efficient than deciding to find an easy, shallow, thoughtless solution. 

Irrational thinking due to addiction to technology and information. Dive deeper into the things I am already pursuing myself. Stop consuming redundant information phrased differently. Instead, building on what I already know and using the resources I have mentally retained due to actual helpfulness stems a much quicker and elegant solution. 

CONTEXT OF THE PROBLEM

Too simple or too abstract/opinionated:infrastructure dependent (complex) - there's a reason for this and it's that my problem is specific to the context in which I am faced with it. 

Problem vagueness. Online articles are rarely specific and are purposefully more vague in order to cause one to expand their horizons for click bait. Aside from the adds the simple links in articles to every which source related to nothing helpful become the golden solution to all your problems. 

 Instead of always reverting to online resources MUST BE MINDFUL.

This ramble stemmed from the [Focused podcast on information overload](https://pca.st/episode/91bfd694-bee3-4c77-9cd1-cb0fdedc95ef).

Ramble complete.
